i'll be talking about creating
accessible content with
wordpress um and yeah because
you make great content so let's make
sure everyone can actually access it
um quickly going over what we're going
to talk about today
talk about themes and themes and
accessibility and how they relate to
content
quick tips about accessible content
importance of headings and titles images
and especially writing good alt text
which is a lot trickier than you would
expect
um about links and writing good links
some color
last session went so much into more
detail than i will and it was great
but just so we'll get a few quick points
and a little bit about cognitive
accessibility
and um the last part will be how to
quickly
evaluate plugins um because there's yeah
there's so many plugins and themes
about accessibility and it's hard to
really like narrow down unless you look
at the code so there's a few tips that i
can share
on how to like get an idea of the site's
accessibility without having to look at
the code
and then if we have time uh we'll
evaluate some plugins and themes or
websites together so you can share
a few themes or plugins links to
different websites and i can
use those tips that we talk about with
the plugins
i know it's a little odd to talk about
content and starting
with themes though um but i wanted to
make sure we had
an understanding of what we were talking
about in the relation of themes to
content um and how they
yeah relate so sometimes we get
questions about
um i want an accessible like give me an
accessible theme
or i want a theme that's accessible
where can i find one of those
but the problem is a theme on itself
can't
really be accessible um because
they can't be evaluated on accessibility
because they don't have
content like as much as myself as a
designer too
and other people might like to just go
look at a theme
most people don't really just go to a
website to just look at the wrapper
content or the wrapper of the page um
you go for the actual content and so
when we talk about accessible themes we
say they're accessible
ready because only a site with content
can be accessible so a theme can be
ready
to be accessible as in if the content is
accessible
the theme the wrapper won't get in the
way of that
so with that out of the way let's dive
into a little bit of the actual content
a few quick tips little things make a
big difference sometimes
so uh there's a tweet in this
on this slide that says when using
hashtags if you capitalize every new
word blind twitter users can actually
hear the message you're saying
so instead of hashtag all lowercase
blacklivesmatter
which still rocks but is less accessible
but capital i or the
uh hashtag with capitalized black
lives matter with the capital for each
word so it's more segmented
allows it to be accessible even on
instagram
and um yeah you should capitalize
multi-word hashtags
when you use a screen reader and you are
like for example if you're editing text
uh with a screen reader you come across
that hashtag blacklivesmatter it'll say
it's a misspelled word
um to you uh if you're in the editing
mode
whereas the capitalized ones it will be
able to the screener can identify each
of those
words as separate and that they're
intended to be
separate and it will read it correctly
as well as
if it's all lowercase it just assumes
it's one long string and we'll try to
read it that way
similarly for screen years uh we have
this like
emphasis uh meme or kind of format which
is kind of a fun format visually with
like clapping hands for emphasis
but unfortunately when you
view this content or access this condo
with a screen reader which is an
assistive technology
that will just redo the content screen
and that
blind users or low vision or
actually i kind of enjoy using them from
time to time as well um
they'll read this as don't clapping
hands use clapping hands lots clapping
hands of clapping hands emojis clapping
hands
which doesn't really have the same
effect so
in general let's try to avoid using this
format
captioning videos is really important
like we're doing right now uh
because without those captions that is
completely inaccessible
um and similarly
providing transcripts for audio content
which also was discussed earlier and
will be
discussed in more detail in future um
and
some upcoming presentations so
headings over here you have this i'm a
heading
little image that we're going to talk a
little bit about
what headings do for us and how they
give content structure
so on the right side of the slide we
have the page table
title is in h1 and
then a little content second level
heading h2
third level heading h3 another second
level heading for a new section h2
and these are all different well as you
can guess
headings and we have this h1 2 3
these numbers to designate the order or
not the order but the um
the the importance of like um how that
content is nested which we'll go over in
a second
um but i like to think of headings like
chapters in a book
they give the page structure in the book
structure so
the page title would be like the book
title it's the biggest
most important heading it defines what
this content is
whereas underneath of that a second
level heading h2
would be like um uh
like a chapter within a book it's like
they're important sections
but the book title is the most important
and then in h3 might be um
a little sub section within a chapter
so we have all the way down to six
actually that you can use
but often you really only use one two
three sometimes four but five and six
are there
by all means if you want to uh go that
far
but the important thing to remember too
here is to not
choose a heading level because it's um
just by the size
of the text that it is so we don't want
to use an h3
in a spot where we should use an h2 just
because we want
like a smaller a smaller break so the
semantics of the
tag the h level is really important
and one of the reasons that this is
important is
screeners can navigate by heading very
easily
um so when you go to in page it's kind
of like skimming the content
if you're a sighted person you can like
go to it scroll down the page
look at some of the main sections and
say is this a page i want to be looking
at
similarly if you're using a screen
reader you can press the h
key depending on the screen reader
software you're using and it will
it'll jump you to those headings and
announce the heading level
so you get an idea of the overall
structure of the page
and where you're at within that as well
as if this is something i want to
dig in on or what sections do i want to
explore
and to illustrate what i mean by the
semantic
and the structure let's take like this
presentation so far it's called creating
accessible content with wordpress
if we weren't to give it any sort of
semantic tag that h1
it would just be at the same level of
everything underneath of it
so next we talked about themes and
accessibility
some content considerations
we're going to talk about adding
headings in wordpress next and you see
how you get this structure of the page
just
like kind of table of contents effect is
um is starting to form
so image is an alt text and then h3
underneath of the images select the alt
text so
even just because of the way we marked
it up by creating the right heading
we get a lot of meaning and structure
from
the page just by just by using those
and so in press just to quickly go over
in case you're not sure
there's a heading block the page title
itself is also a heading and you so you
and that's always going to be an h1
for pretty much everything and so you
won't need to use h1
it'll automatically be your page title
but you can add the heading block
and then within the block toolbar you
have the h2
up here in the the top part of the
toolbar as well as in the sidebar the
heading settings
you have your h123456 you can choose the
one you want
but my preference is
using the little pound sign
or number sign it'll automatically if
you use two of them
it'll automatically create a heading
level two block for you
or three of them and hit space it'll
automatically create a heading block at
level three
and so on this is how i always do it
it's just a really quick and easy way
um to create a heading block on the fly
as well
all right so images in all texts on the
right side of this
slide we have a purple this uh the
orange box
with the little file missing sign and it
says a purple slug on a red rose
that text there if you're a sighted
person
you will this is usually the only time
you'll interact with alt text
is when a file or an image can't be
found
or the like the link is missing um
it'll show you that little that little
symbol and show you the alt text in
place of the image
um but images uh
like if you're using a screen reader
then that alt text is what describes the
image
and a little tip quickly
don't use images of text so i see this
on twitter
all the time same with instagram where
people will post a big picture
of text in order to get around the the
lion limit
um and as a result
unless you're copying and pasting all
that text and setting it as
the alt text for that image which you
can do and should do if you are going to
do this
um most of the time people don't and so
it just says like the
file name of the image it doesn't uh it
doesn't announce anything relevant
um and so it's entirely inaccessible
so all images in general need alt text
well it's tricky they almost always need
alt text
because some of them can be
presentational as they kind of discussed
in the last
presentation that there are some images
that don't actually carry any meaning
and so we say that those are
presentational like
imagine like a graphic on the side that
is just kind of like a decorative
element you don't need alt text for
those
but unless you're like absolutely
positive
i would just recommend going ahead and
adding the alt text if you're not sure
let's just assume adding alt text is
better
unless you're sure and when you're
writing when you're doing this to write
content it's almost always going to be
the right choice to add it
but writing alt text is actually kind of
hard in my opinion
um i wanted to get better at it so i
asked on twitter
what are your like ask people some first
their favorite tips on writing good alt
texts
i said it's sometimes hard for me to
find the line between not enough
and too much description and i got back
what i felt like were some good
responses that uh helped me kind of
categorize um how to write better alt
text
so some of them were to be descriptive
but succinct
like about one to three sentences max
highlight the important details in the
image
that are relevant to the page content
and that's the part
that i had not considered before
is that it needs to be relevant to the
page content and
like it's not just in a standalone image
if it's within your content
there's likely a reason it's there so
try to like create that connection i'd
heard recently too about someone
that tried to relate it to um an image
being like paragraph text like
um if the image wasn't there that text
could be
naturally inserted um and this is
something i knew but i would still do
from time to time
which is starting alt text with an image
of
um or a gif of and
it's not like you don't need to do that
a screen reader
already tells you that it's an image and
then reads all text like there's
there's no reason to do that but i would
do i would still catch myself trying to
write it that way for some reason and
carrie fisher did this a good article
for smashing magazine about the
telephone
and one of the things she recommended
for writing good alt text was the
telephone test
and this goes back to the first slide um
or the
image the broken image slide of the
purple slug on a red rose
so she said that uh
imagine you're on the telephone and or
you pick up a telephone to call your
friend
and as soon as they answer you just say
a purple slug and hang up
well if you do that what
image do you think your friend is going
to have in their head
for me if someone did that i would just
have a purple slug
in my head on like a white background
there wouldn't be any like
context it'd just be this like floating
purple slug
but if you compare that to just adding a
little bit more
context of picking up the phone and
saying a purple slug on a red rose
and hanging up now in my for
for me in my kind of mind's eye i see
the purple slug
on the red rose and then the red rose is
maybe in a field
and so i get like the rest of the image
filled in it it creates a
fuller image for me um
and so those little details those little
extra things can make
a big difference and so
let's do a little practice of it
um you can comment on youtube if you
want or
feel free to just guess on your own and
let's select some alt text for this
image here
i have a little story that i start uh
that says
i was excited until i sat down in the
small
cart ship it will be worth it i
reassured myself
and then we have this image that we need
the alt text for
there's uh you know some mountains the
clouds
uh the little um cable cars and the it's
winter
we got the the alpine trees
it's a nice image with a blue bluish
cast
so let's see option a
image containing mountains clouds cable
cars
trees blue and white with small houses
photo taken from above
b mountains and tiny cable cars
and we'll talk through this afterwards
see beautiful view of the mountains as
we travel across the land
and cable cars right before we pass
through the clouds
or d cable cars about to travel
underneath the clouds with large
mountains in the background
so option a we have what
um is all text that would be likely
generated by like a stock photo library
um when they run an image through like
uh
some ai that just kind of grabs all the
details it can identify
and shows it into a text form so
image containing mountains class cable
cars trees
and all that it's just um when you go to
a stock
photo library and look at their alt text
almost all of it is
similar to this where it's just very
generic and gives you all these little
details but
for me even though you have all the
details that like
it doesn't give me a great
a great representation of the image it
feels like generic
and kind of cold
and so i would not use that as alt text
b mountains and tiny cable cars it's a
little short but
it could totally um it could work
but i feel like there's a lot that is
missing
c beautiful view of the mountains as we
traveled across the land and cable cars
right before we pass through the clouds
and this is tricky
because also because if i didn't write
this
select the alt text thing i would have a
hard time with
these c and d options but what i think c
does well here is um relates
the content to the image so
it's not just a standalone alt text
similar to d d is like a great
alt text for this image if it were if it
were
just like in a slide gallery of images
or in a stock photo library where
it's just the image outside of any
context or content
so c i would go with c because it
relates
the text the the content
um to the image better
and so yeah d cable car is about to
travel underneath the clouds with large
mountains in the background
it's still good alt text but maybe not
the appropriate one within
the context of this story and then so
how do we actually add alt text in the
wordpress
is in the media library in that
alternative
text field that would actually be a
great
place to add that d option
where it was like the stand-alone um alt
text
that just described the image within
like a gallery
because when you add it in the the media
library for wordpress
they're actually in relation to existing
content in that sense
but then when you're in the block editor
and you add an image in that is where
you would give that
option c alt text where you have uh
you have the context of it within the
context
of the story or the content um
so that would be a good place to put
option c and something to keep in mind
to remember
is that when you add it to the image
settings the alt
text there it won't save that to
your media library that alt text within
the
image settings there within the block
editor
only saves it in relation to the image
in the content
and the reason for that is it's only
you could add that image again later on
in a story or on another post
in the context could be different and as
we've discussed
it's important to have the alt text be
in relation to the content
unless and then but if you add it via
the media library
that's when it would get used in the
gallery or if you don't overwrite it
here
so i know that's a little complicated
but it's just something to try to keep
in mind if you're not sure why your alt
text is showing up or it's showing up
differently
things like that so
that was a bit about images and now we
can go
to links um and what i mean by that's
the hyperlink
things like that something
and i see people do uh use links
inappropriately
all the time um so some of these
uh are like they're very little things a
lot of accessibility too when you're
creating content it's just doing the
little things right
can make a huge difference so one thing
don't open links in a new tab please
um in general anything that
you code that takes away control from
the user is a bad thing
so you know when you go to a website if
you want to open something in a new tab
you can you know okay and click or right
click and select open a new tab
those are choices that the user can make
and when you
uh when you code it so that it
automatically opens in a new tab
you're taking that control away from
someone
which is not ideal and almost
all the time the arguments i'm sure
there is some valid argument for opening
links in a new tab
but generally when i hear them they're
more focused on the business
side of it than they are about the user
preference
um and other issues with opening links
no tab is that it
takes you out of the context that you
were in and so now you're like back
button
is broken if you didn't notice it open
in a new tab you're not sure where you
are
you might have been um yeah there's a
lot of things that can
go wrong because of that so unless
you're
absolutely sure that it's a better
accessibility to open a new tab
you should not do it
like the last talk described
you need something more than just like
the color to offset
your link text so in general using
underlines you could do a background but
you need to make sure it has sufficient
contrast to what's around it
and some other element to help identify
is is preferred
and then this is a big one is
to against you'll see this everywhere
i'm sure
we've all written link text like this uh
but avoid generic phrases like click
here
or read more because link text
should describe the link and not rely on
the surrounding text for context so a
link
should let you know where it's going to
take you
just by having the link text that's the
ideal
and these again they're little things
that you can do to make a big difference
and why i say that is this is the screen
reader
rotor for voiceover is if you're on a
site that just uses click here you can
navigate by links and see that structure
um it's just going to say click here on
everything it takes those links out of
context and there's no relation
but imagine instead someone used those
links as
buy now or upcoming events
or all of our available properties you
don't even
with these things you don't even know
like what site you're necessarily on
but you can get an idea of what's going
to happen when you click that
just from the link itself from the text
itself
um colors the last presentation did a
great job of going over all the details
of that
um so i won't spend too much time here
but the things a few basic things to
keep in mind are
color contrast and it says on the slide
can people read the text and the text
kind of fades out into that
blue that matches the blue background it
makes it really hard to read
so we're going for a minimum the
contrast color checkers
if you google them they're pretty easy
to come across
contrast ratio the minimum that you want
to shoot for is a 5
4.5 of contrast between the foreground
and background
and then ideally you're gonna get um
closer to seven to one especially for
body text other like ui elements
can be that closer to 4.5 um
but something to remember
as well as the last side mentioned last
presentation mentioned this
to not rely on color only and here's an
example of that
if you have we have a form here it says
first name it has a red
check and then last name has my last
name jones in it
the green check and that has the no
color blindness presentation and then if
you
look the same thing with um a red
red blindness it both those
check marks start to become a lot more
similar and there's not like a
a strong like difference between them
and i use the check mark here because
people can sometimes use that for both
positive correct and
the negative incorrect but
you can fix things like this by adding
some text to describe it because
similarly icons shouldn't be standalone
there should always be
some text that supports that so in this
instance for the empty field
we just say your first name is required
and you can see on both those
with uh with colorblindness and with no
colorblindness
you get that text to help support and
actually tell you what's wrong which
makes it accessible
for um way more accessible for everyone
just quickly some cognitive
accessibility tips
is to make things easier to understand
um
and ways you can do that are if you have
like a long
paragraph that has a few points in it
break that up into bulleted lists
can also use shorter sentences and
smaller words
if highlighting or bolding the important
pieces
of text is super useful um
also useful for just skimming so you can
kind of like get the idea
and take things in of a larger article
and see the important parts
don't ever use a timer um
because one it puts pressure on people
unnecessarily
and two like there's no reason
or there's really a reason i guess that
you would need to like
limit someone's access to the content it
just
yeah it just creates something that
could be accessible and
makes it inaccessible just by adding a
timer so please don't use them and
don't auto play things i don't this
is another thing that like that you're
taking control away from the user and is
only uh that the only argument i
hear for them is from the business side
of it it's not from like a person saying
i prefer
everything being auto played you know
you go to
we've all been to a website that has it
start auto playing and then you don't
know how to turn it off
so many things that can go wrong with it
so please
don't auto play things uh
some so about evaluating for
accessibility this is going back to the
beginning when we asked for some
um for some uh plugins or themes
how i go over them because oftentimes
i'd be in a situation where
i would need to evaluate like you know
20 themes or 20 plug-ins to say
to narrow down to be like which ones of
these should we even start looking at
like
and looking at accessibility and
evaluating it for accessibility
first is such an easy way to eliminate
i'd say 90 plus percent
of plug-ins or thieves if you go to it
and um and just test it with a few
things
they'll you will narrow down your pool
dramatically very quickly so i call this
the five minute accessibility audit
i test the keyboard interactions using
tab
and arrow keys i zoom in and out on it
to see if it breaks the functionality
see if they've labeled inputs in inputs
here like form fields
and we'll talk about all these in a
minute and see how they use color
do they use color appropriately contrast
as well as
the if they used color to signify a
meaning without
the supporting text so first
we have our keyboard navigation i have
this twitter
navigation here and if you press tab
on it it will you should see that focus
ring
and that focus ring tells you where you
are on the page
as well and it should be very visible
like easy to see
and it should allow you to move around
just using your keyboard
and as a sided keyboard person like
using it you would use use tab
most of the time and then if you um
if you're in like a radio group or um
or like a drop down you might use up and
down arrows or right and left so
just because something if you reach
something you're not sure how to
interact with it
try using the arrow keys and see if that
help that if you get somewhere else
in and out of things when you zoom in
and out it should increase the size of
the text
and reflow content if necessary so
this is an example of a website just
pressing command plus on a mac and it
zooms in
and you can see the header uh like
reflows
to accommodate the larger text
labeling inputs we see here we have this
form
that has the email confirm email
password and you see they're inside of
the of the box
um labels we need to describe the field
but
these inside of the input field are
actually
placeholders they're not labels
um because placeholders
they're not actually necessary but if
you use them they are examples of the
text so instead of email there it should
say
like example gmail.com
um a placeholder is supposed to be an
example of the content to be filled in
there
but the bigger issue here is that once
you click into that field
or you start typing that field your
label is now
gone a much better way to do it is to
have the label
coded correctly and outside of that
input
um that way when you're typing into it
you can still see the label
appropriately and to demonstrate why
see if you can remember what this field
was for
now there's text in it the label is gone
and if you you happen to remember
it was the name field what should we
call you
so it's really important to have those
labels visible
so now would be a time
if anyone has shared something we can do
a quick
screen share and we can go to that
website
and just run over those few things like
the keyboard navigation
looking for inputs in the zooming
anything like that
um and if not then we can also just go
over some questions in general
but that's the end of what i have
prepared
hello jerry thank you for the
presentation
um i've learned a lot of small thing
that can make a big impact i believe
our users can take away the benefit
and why also they can understand the
reason why
this is important so we have a bunch of
questions
and we still have uh some time to
address them so let's just go ahead with
it i'll
get with the first question for you so
for
alternative text you spoke of images
of block of text needing alternative
text
that is the same text when is that too
many words
is there a limit defined by wcag
for number of words in alternate text i
don't think there's a limit
um if it is it's very very large
but i don't i'm not aware of the limit
um
but you could definitely yeah look at
the the what guy
or actually not sure it would be i think
it'd be an html spec
for that but okay if you are reaching a
maximum
it's probably not great alt text is my
guess
unless you're like like the twitter
image thing unless you're like
trying to recreate a large thing and
you're limited by the platform such as
instagram or twitter
if you're doing it on your own website
it would be better to have
that image just provided as content
all right great suggestions next
question
what are the best practices when it
comes to alternate text
and data heavy charts um
in relation to that one
sure uh so what are the best practices
when it comes to
alternative text and data heavy charts
should you just summarize the main
takeaway or include all the details
for example bar chart comparing results
okay with graphics like that um
it can get tricky there um
you would definitely want to provide all
the detail in a
accessible format um but
it sometimes it depends on the control
that you have available so like
if you were able to mark that up in a
more interactive way that could be
accessible
um that was not an image that could be
better
but would also be outside of the scope i
guess of this talk
but if you were limited to just having
an image
and you were and your that was your only
option is just use that image then you
would probably want to have all the
details
um yeah right
but without seeing exactly what it is it
can be hard there's a lot of like
uh subjectivity to it in a way but in
general if you're providing content it
needs to be
all of it needs to be available um
yeah absolutely so what would be your
one advice for writing
good alternative texts
i think the ones i broke it down into
are
um like limiting it to one to three
plus the the relation of the content um
are are my like the things that i guess
for me
flip the switch just like how to write
good alt text
um but
yeah i'd also like i mentioned in the
presentation i'd recently heard someone
describe it as a paragraph and they
don't think i explained that well when i
discussed it but
um if you look up i think dave rupert
is his name and he wrote uh one about
how he just reframed it in his head
about
how an image within context should make
sense
if you took the image out and just put
the alt text in there
that should make sense within the flow
of that document
so he started describing in his to
himself as just
paragraph text why is it there
and what is it doing to elevate this
content and if the answer is
it's not doing anything for the content
then
likely the image either doesn't need to
be there um
like it's not helping anyone in a way
it's just like taking up space
so it's not as like focused good content
or
it could be that the image is
presentational
okay thank you so the next question
it's kind of dramatic so the question is
as a member of automatic what can we
expect in the near and distant future in
terms of
cms changes to improve the accessibility
experience
would you want to share some inside
thoughts um
i am not positive uh
it's you know it's definitely a large
organization
i've been working more actively on
accessibility um
with it and making sure that anything
that comes through is part of my team
gets
like i'm very attentive to the
accessibility of it doesn't mean i
always get it right
but i can assure you that i'm doing my
best
as well as i guess just the general
intention of the company people
um are very very supportive of
accessibility and it may not always come
out in terms of
releasing fully accessible things all
the time um
but i can i can say that the intention
is there and that
every like i
have not had to push back to be like
we need to make this accessible and
someone be like are you sure
like it's always been like oh yeah
definitely like how do we do that it's
i've never had to have a discussion with
someone about
um about justifying that excessively
should be there it's 100
supported by everyone there um and
but things move fast and not everyone is
an accessibility expert
and so it is hard finding that balance
um
yeah like just recently right now uh
i put in a review for a combo box
element which is a
search field really related to a drop
down where like
uh you can think of like an auto
complete drop down um
and i put in a review of something that
they
uh that i was like hey this isn't great
direction um like there's
quite a few reasons why this isn't um as
fully accessible as it should be
and it's that was maybe a month or two
ago
and they've since like totally rewritten
it and gone a different direction
that should be way more accessible so um
yeah i hope that helps the answer that
the intention is there and the sport's
there but
we're also a lot of people are human as
we as you know and don't always get
things right
i'm sure that information helped us the
next few question is
a bit more technical so the next one is
about gutenberg and block editor
so the question is does gutenberg
or block editor always pull in the
alternative text
that has been entered in the media
library and also
does the editor permit overriding that
already entered
alternative text on local post
um so if i recall that
so it's the question about
the media library when you insert the
image into
the block editor it pulls the text
from the media library if it's there and
fills it into the block editor as like
you're a kind of default
but then when you edit that text in the
block editor
it won't and save the post it won't take
what you entered
and save it to the media library i
believe that's how it works but please
double check that for yourself but i
believe
any um any text in the block editor does
not
get saved to the media library that
that's those are separate
for those reasons i online before that
like
uh yeah that they need they need a way
of being distinct from each other
because of
the context of the image within that
flow
yeah but go ahead and test it out and
make sure i'm right on that
all right the next one sounds
interesting where can we find
accessible ready themes uh i believe
just the wordpress.org um
uh like plugins repository search
i believe has an accessible ready um
like label but that would just be for
free themes
um otherwise i
would say if you're looking at a theme
outside of that to go ahead
and um yeah use those kinds of in you
and you don't know like the underlying
code
in a lot of the the little details that
those tips that i kind of pointed out on
evaluating things
can really go a long way toward
isolating um like if you started out
like i said with 20 you'll probably end
up with fewer than five
that have really considered it and
gotten it and done it well
um yeah thank you
the next one says why is it not good
to open external links in a new tab
especially the social media links
any thoughts um when you say social
when they say social media links is it
like if you're on your website and you
have like
a few different um social media links to
open
um i think i would say the same things i
went over which would be
you're taking control away from the user
so if i
go to your website and i see the social
media links
i can choose to open that new tab if i
wish to do so or maybe i'm ready just to
to go on that yeah that
when you are making an assumption a lot
of accessibility issues arise
from making an assumption about what the
user wants because
the user is not one person we are
very uh diverse in abilities and
um and disabilities and what's right for
one group
of person even within a group can vary
widely
and so the best thing to do in general
is to just
uh give the pattern and let that person
decide for themselves what is best for
them
um and how they want to interact with
something so
that might be a little bit more like
accessible philosophical
about just opening links in a new tab
but i think it's an important
illustration of the larger
scope of that um but more practically
like
specific reasons again would be like
if you are using a screen reader and a
link opens in a new tab
it's very easy to miss uh
like it's very easy to just not hear
that you're in a new context
and so say you click that social media
link it opens in a new tab
or new window it's harder to get back to
that window if you've missed that you're
not in this new context
and so i can't just use the back button
anymore
to quickly go back because that your
history is within your browser
the current like browser tab and when
you open a new tab
that's there's no more history and
there's a disconnect there
so that's another reason i think it's
useful to not open things in a new tab
absolutely so we have only a few more
questions to go
so the next one is related to the
e-commerce industry
fomo fear of missing out is a famous or
infamous technique used in the
e-commerce
industry where counter is used to
increase the sale
does it make a site inaccessible
according to your thoughts
uh yeah i think it would um
yeah there's it and again like i similar
to what i discussed before is like
those are business decisions not
considering the person
behind that um and
like yeah i'm i'm not sure what
user-focused decision would
make a site more accessible by having a
timer on it
i can only think of things that would be
on like the business side of why they
would want that
right thank you the last question is
about
the news broadcasting agencies so the
majority of the websites for
news broadcasting agencies or media
agencies
don't really offer much accessibility
options
why is this a case would you agree
uh i'm not sure i feel
qualified uh to talk about i guess i
would maybe need a
specific site or something to evaluate
but i'm not sure about a larger
media organization and how
that relates to accessibility
unfortunately all right
so jerry thank you so much for being
patient and answering
so many of the questions we do see our
audience
is paying close attention and they have
that eagerness to learn
in depth from you pick your brains at
topics of interest so
uh i would like to once again thank you
so much for
being with us